We left off talking about semantic search,
what it is,
how embeddings and vectors work,
gave some examples on that.
Like I said, this is not something
that you need to know, but
it is definitely worth exploring
a little bit if you have the time.
It's pretty cool how this math works and
seeing how it's basically
the language behind systems like
these AI models understand data.
It's cool for you to be able to
speak that language as well, so.
But there's enough here for
us to continue to move forward, and
now I want to actually create
a semantic search experience.
So let's write some code.
So what we're gonna make here is
a movie recommendation semantic search.
So basically, there's gonna be a list of
movies in which this search engine is
going to be indexed on.
And you can type in the type of
movie that you want to watch,
and it will recommend a movie for you.
So, a regular search engine might require
you to type in a matching title or
any other metadata associated
with that movie, like a director,
an author, a category,
a year that it was released.
So if you knew some of these
things you could find the movie or
may be they were smart enough to have the
descriptions of the movies written out.
So therefore if you type some word that
is in that body of text description,
it might find it.
It almost feels semantic.
But what if you wanted to describe in your
own words the type of movie you wanted
to watch, and
none of the descriptions in the movies or
index had those words exactly,
but they had similar meaning?
Okay, this is where semantics
search will come in so
it can help us find things that
are similar in context and
feeling verses just being lthe
string matches the string, right?
So, Yeah, I mean I have a paragraph here
describing how this will work in a
traditional search but here is an example.
So, for instance, if we were looking for
a movie that was kinda Inception, right?
If you had a traditional search, you can
type in Inception and it would just return
all the titles of the movies that have
inception in them, literally the word.
But with a semantic search,
we can type in inception.
And it would understand the deeper
themes and vibes of inception.
So it would know that dream,
manipulation, layered realities,
a heist mind-bending plots,
it would know all that, and
it could recommend movies that have
the same semantics as inception,
and not just the title itself.
Does that make sense?
Okay, so you might get back some
results if you typed in inception.
You might get back The Matrix because
it deals with alternate realities.
You might get back Shutter Island.
It's a mind-bending plot.
You get it.
So some of the benefit of this is that
it's just more in line with expectations
of what someone is thinking about
when I type something in like that.
It would suck to type in,
I wanna see a really funny horror movie.
And then you just get back
really scary horror movies.
[LAUGH] That's not what
you were looking for.
So this help you understand that.
It's great for discoverability because
now because everything is semantically
related, it helps you
discover things a lot better.
So semantic search is actually great for
a discover engine, in my opinion.
It's one of the best use cases.
Yeah, I just make sure user's happy.
So let's get started with that.
I'm gonna make a new file here,
we'll call it Search like this.
We're gonna import our OpenAI
from the file that we created.
If you didn't create the file,
then you just have to make a new open,
OpenAI instance and
do the API key and all that stuff.
So it should be good there.
I don't have to do .EMV because
it's already done here.
So we're good there.
And then we need to install something.
So I talked a little bit about LangChain,
we're actually gonna use it now.
So we're gonna install this package called
LangChain, which, again, is like an SDK.
That's like a wrapper for LLM.
If you wanna build LLM into your
application, I would say today,
LangChain is probably the most
sophisticated library for that.
And they handle a lot of different things.
Now I think a lot of people are finding
that they probably would do a lot of this
stuff natively when it comes to like
interacting with the LMSs themselves.
Because like I was saying earlier on the
break that I think l chain is helpful but
then eventually you get to the point
where you have to learn how L chain does
things and that mechanism and
how to learn it is.
It's probably worth just learning how to
do it without LangChain at that point.
It's very specific.
But there are things that are very obvious
without a lot of documentation, and
we're gonna use those obvious things.
So, in this case, let's install LangChain.
And they have a Python library.
They have a JavaScript version.
We're obviously using
the JavaScript version.
I think the Python version might be
slightly ahead of the JavaScript version.
So, there's typically newer things on that
version than a JavaScript version, but
for the most part,
it's like feature parody.
And the three things we want to
give is we wanna get document,
memory vector, store,
and OpenAI embeddings.
So, we've talked about two
of these things already.
So, for a document, let's see,
that's from LangChain/, where is that?
Document, I guess that makes sense.
And then for the memory vectors,
it's not gonna auto-complete it for me.
I thought it was.
That's gonna be from LangChain,
the vector stores, and then, yeah.
So for that, it's going to be
LangChain/vectorstores/memory.
I don't know why it's doing that, and
then we can get the MemoryVectorStore.
It's exactly what it sounds like.
It's an in-memory vectorstore.
Otherwise, we have to either
connect to something hosted.
It's a database.
You either gotta go find a hosted
one to connect to, download one, or
use Docker and spin up one.
We're not doing all that,
we're just gonna do it in memory.
It's way easier.
We don't need to persist
this across anything.
But obviously, in production,
you would not do this in memory, right?
And then OpenAI embeddings.
So this is the thing that's gonna create
the embeddings for us using OpenAI.
So up until this point, we've been
using OpenAI just to do completions,
which is like give me an answer
to this question or chat.
But OpenAI also has an embeddings
endpoint where you can
send it data and
it will return the embeddings for it.
So that's very convenient.
It also costs money per token.
So we will be doing the OpenAI embedding.
And then from there you just
wanna copy this movie data.
This is the data that we'll be indexing.
So I have it all here for you to copy it.
Okay, it's just literally
an array of movies.
My mouse is, okay, calm down.
There we go.
So, we have our movies here.
Like I said,
it's just an array of objects.
It's just the idea, title,
description of some movies.
Feel free to add some more movies here.
Take away some movies.
There's no right or wrong here.
This is just some stuff saving you
some time from writing things, but
that's an array of movies.
You get the point.
And then basically what we wanna do is
first we need to create a function that
creates our vector store.
We have to create it with
that index of movies.
And there's some things to think
about to consider when doing that,
and I'll talk about them a little bit.
I'll get into more of it when I talk
about scaling it, but let's do that.
So let's make a function
called createStore.
And it's just going to return
the memory vector store from documents.
So we'll just say,
MemoryVectorStore.fromDocuments, and
there's different ways.
There's from Text,
fromExistingIndex, fromDocuments.
We're gonna say fromDocuments, and
then it takes an array of
documents that you wanna create.
So we have an array of movies here.
What we need to do is we need to convert
these movies over to these LangChain
documents.
A LangChain document is just an object
in a specific format that all of
LangChains vector stores are expecting.
That's the sweet thing about LangChain.
It does normalize how you
can interact with vector.
It doesn't matter what store
you use as long as you use
the LangChain version of it.
They all take the same input,
and that input as a document.
So that's the beautiful thing about that,
as you can change out your stores without
having to really change your code as
long as you always use documents.
So we need to convert these
objects into documents.
So let's do that.
So inside of here,
I'm just going to just say,
movies.map, map over the movie.
I'm gonna get one movie here.
And then what we wanna do is for each
one movie, we wanna create a document.
A document basically has
like two properties on it.
One is the page content.
So you can think of this,
this is the content that I wanna
turn into a vector, basically.
This is the stuff that I want
to turn into a vector and
put inside of a multi-dimensional space so
people can do queries around it.
So whatever about this movie,
you want to be indexed.
This is what you wanna put
in page content, right?
And then metadata is like all
the stuff associated with this entity.
That way when you show the search results,
you can point to this
metadata as the source.
This is how I figured this out.
This is helpful for like imagine if each
one of these movie titles had a link that
you can click on that will take you there.
So I can put the link in here.
So when I return the search results, I can
show you the link to go to you can click
on it, right things like that, or
any other things associated with it.
So it's like it's like the structured
content of the non-structured content that
will be indexed, right?
So page content is usually non-structured.
And metadata is usually
the structured one that's not indexed,
that's helpful after you find the results,
okay?
So let's do that.
So we have one movie.
Yes?
>> Can the metadata be used
in your initial query?
Say like, give me everything
that matches this metadata and
then do semantic beyond that or.
>> Yeah, so it depends on the memory or
on the vector store.
Some vector stores allow you
to do what's called filtering.
So you can filter the documents
based off the metadata and
then do the semantic search
on the page content.
So it's great for that.
So you won't need the AI for
the metadata filter.
Yeah, but yeah, that depends on the store.
Good question.
Yeah, that's actually what
people are starting to do now.
I think, like Algolia AI.
I think that's what they're doing now.
Yeah, with their neural search,
which is a combination of that.
It's a combination of keywords and AI at
the same time or something like that.
I haven't tried it out.
Okay cool.
So we got that,
we wanna return a new document.
We got some page content here.
And I mean,
there's really no right or wrong way.
It's just unstructured content.
I want people to look at the title.
So I'll say Title, and I'll put
the movie title in here like that.
And then I'll make a new line and
I'll just throw the description in here.
Like that.
That's my page content.
Leave whatever you want, just unstructured
content that you want people to be able to
semantically search on.
And then metadata, you just literally
store the whole movie in here if you want.
So I'll just say I'll make one call
like source so here's the idea of it.
Like that.
And then I mean, you could really just put
the whole movie in here if you want it.
There really is no wrong answer
of how you wanna do that.
Let me go back to what I had there.
I think yeah,
I just put like the title in here.
That way I can quickly
show you what that is.
If I was making a UI, it might be helpful.
Just be like, yeah,
here's the title of it.
Something like that.
Okay, cool, any questions on that?
And there are some implications
of indexing this and
we'll talk about it in the QA part,
the document QA, but it's not always
gonna be this simple as like I can just
make documents and throw it in here.
Cuz there's like context limits, and
sometimes you can't index
things that are big.
Yes?
>> Just like we converted the objects
into LangChain documents here,
can we do the same with a CSV
file with numerical data?
For example, movie data, movie runtime,
amount of views, and most time viewed.
>> 100%, not only can you do that
because it doesn't care where you
get the data from, langchain was smart
enough to just make that for you.
So, if you go to their docs and
you go to Retrieval,
you go to Document loaders, you go to
Integrations, you go to File Loaders.
There's a CSV file loader here that
literally takes a path to a CSV file,
loads it up, and creates a list
of documents out of it for you.
So yeah, you can do it manually,
you can use their loader.
This is why I said this is the part
of LangChain that I like cuz it's
very obvious and it has absolutely nothing
to do with, it's not specific to anything.
It just loads up a file and
makes this array.
That's great.
So I'll use that.
And I like using their interface with the
vector stores because it works very well
with this.
Everything else it's a little
difficult in my opinion.
Cool, any other questions?
Okay, and then the last thing we have
to pass as a second argument from
documents functions, we have to pass
in the embeddings function that we want
the vector store to use to convert
all of these into embeddings for us.
It's gonna do that for us, right?
It's gonna make the API call to OpenAI for
us and
convert all these
documents into embeddings.
We just have to tell it.
It's agnostic.
It's not stuck on OpenAI's embedding API.
It can use anything that
follows a certain structure.
So we're gonna use the one that they allow
us to use, which is the OpenAI embedding.
So we've seen new OpenAI
embeddings like that.
This is expecting you to have your
API key and the environment variable.
If you don't,
you need to pass in your API key here.
Like that.
But I have my environment variables so
we're good.
So without this,
it cannot create embeddings.
Cool, any questions on that?
There are also issues with this.
There's rate limiting.
You can only create so
many bettings at one time.
So there are a lot of issues associated
with this that are very nuanced.
So we'll talk about that later